---
title: "Cultivating a Culture of Quality in organizations as an Early-Career professional"
collection: talks
type: "Speaker, Society of Quality Assurance, 40th Annual Meeting and Quality College"
permalink: talks/2014-03-01-tutorial-1
venue: "Colorado, Denver, USA"
date: 2024-04-09
location: "Colorado, Denver, USA"
---

[Link to article](https://northeastern-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/personal/chakraborty_at_northeastern_edu/Documents/SQA%20Article.docx?d=w83c352bf71a24b88abcb1da8ca1bee00&csf=1&web=1&e=vIOntj)

As an early-career professional, I have made several observations while working in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries, both from the perspective of research and development (R&D) and quality. While working on the R&D side, I've noticed a disconnect among personnel concerning quality. Conversely, during my time in quality, I've come to realize the paramount importance of effective communication in conveying messages to product development teams.

My presentation will concentrate on various aspects, including how to take initiatives in instilling a culture of quality within an organization as a young professional such as through Lunch and Learns. Additionally, I'll discuss strategies for remediating a Quality Management System (QMS) and identifying instances where redundant Corrective and Preventive Actions (CAPAs) may result from miscommunication. I'll delve into the process of distilling CAPAs and Non-Conforming Material Reports (NCMRs) to pinpoint their true root causes. Furthermore, I'll address the challenge of explaining quality-related concepts to individuals who are new to quality and provide insights on crafting effective Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that encompass all relevant aspects. I'll share techniques for conducting comprehensive gap analyses and identifying pertinent industry standards. Lastly, I'll emphasize the importance of maintaining a holistic view and focusing on the ultimate goal, all while avoiding getting bogged down in excessive details.

My central theme will revolve around how early-career professionals in quality can bring fresh perspectives to the table. I'll highlight how these perspectives can positively influence management and elaborate on effective strategies to bake quality into the culture of meddevice companies.

<!-- https://www.xcdsystem.com/SQA/abstract/invite.cfm?uid=632524&hid=7C541771-04F9-F7DF-1E383D05D8B354CF&aid=311849&caid=9&cid=4115 -->